# pandas-challenge

In this repository, we have set up a Python program to import two .csv files (schools_complete.csv and students_complete.csv) with testing data from a given school district and then perform some aggregations and analysis on that data.

* To begin our analysis, we merge our school and student data into a single data frame for some overall information about the district. This includes the total number of schools, students, and budget across the district along with average math and reading scores and also the percentage of students passing math, reading, or both classes.

* After this, we aggregate our data by high school and perform many of the same calculations for each individual school, this time including school type (district vs charter), total students, total budget, per student budget, and the average math/reading scores along with the percentage of students passing math, reading, or both classes. We additionally sort this aggregation by the percent of students passing both classes to find some of the top and bottom performing schools in the district.

* Continuing on, we then aggregate our data by grade level and find average math and reading scores for the different grades (9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th) across each indiviudal high school

* Next, we perform three more aggregations on our data. First by the per student budget, creating bins (<585, 585-630, 630-645, 645-680) for the different per student budgets across the district and then sorting accordingly. Then by school size, again creating bins ( Small (<1000), Medium (1000-2000), Large (2000-5000) ) and sorting each school accordingly. Finally we aggregated by school type (district or charter). With all of these final 3 aggregations, we were interested in the average math and reading scores along with the percentage of students passing math, reading, or both classes.

---

* One key observation here is that smaller schools generally outperformed larger schools from the district. This can be clearly seen in the school size aggregation, where the percentage of students passing both math and reading classes for schools with 2000-5000 students was only 58.286% compared to 89.884% for schools with <1000 students and 90.622% for schools with 1000-2000 students. Looking further back, however, we can also see this phenomenon manifesting before we even perform this aggregation. When performing our analysis by individual schools, we can see that the bottom 5 in the district all have >2500 students and the top 5 in the district all have <2500 students.

* We can easily make another observation when looking at our aggregation by grade level. Here, we can see that there is negligible difference in average scores for both math and reading between grades at any school in the district. The change in scores on a grade-to-grade basis rarely jumps above 2 percentage points, and any consistent trends upwards or downwards for an individual school will only show a negligible total increase or decrease in scores. This could be indicative of multiple things: On one hand, it could show that there is little difference between different types of schools (small vs large, district vs charter, etc) regarding improving student performances over time -- if that were the case, we would see noticable improvements in the averages across grade levels. On the other hand, it could also show that all of the schools in the district are giving their students consistent challenges -- in this case, the student's individual abilities may improve each year, but they will also be given more difficult material, resulting in the scores staying consistent.
